This introduction is targeted at users with no GNU-Emacs experience.

Let’s assume you wrote some APDL command and want to check its
parameters.  In the menu bar use the "APDL" pull-down menu with the
entry "Show APDL Command Help".  The menu shows also the keyboard
shortcut for accessing this command ‘M-?’.  You need to know that
Gnu-Emacs is abreviating certain key sequences M-? means typing the
control key <ALT> and the regular key ‘?’ simultaneously.

GNU-Emacs provides also a third, so called interactive way to access
this and other functions.  By typing ‘M-x’ (the <ALT> key and the ‘x’
key at the same time) you are able to access the, so called,
‘minibuffer’ below the status line. @@texinfo:@inforef{Minibuffer,,emacs}@@
for more information.  There you can input the desired function by its
name.  In above example the function ‘apdl-show-command-parameters’.
So type ‘M-x’ and in the minibuffer type ‘apdl-start-ansys-help’ and
starting it with the <RET> key.

# #+texinfo: @inforef{Minibuffer,,emacs}

Typing long function names can be abbreviated with the auto-completion
feature.  Just enter the first few characters of a command and then
press the <TAB> key.  Another way of saving keystrokes is to use the
Gnu-Emacs’ fuzzy logic.  Instead of typing
‘apdl-show-command-parameters’ it is sufficient to type ‘a-s-c-p’ (and
run it with <RET>).

You can always cancel minibuffer and other commands by typing C-g (the
function ‘keyboard-quit’), i. e. pressing the <CTRL> key and the ‘g’
key at the same time.

All functions described in this help, regardless whether possessing a
keyboard shortcut or not, can be called in this interactive way or
they can be found in the APDL or Ansys menu.  (If you prefer to run
Emacs in a terminal window you might access the menu bar with <F10>
key or ‘M-‘’.)

You may have noticed the underlined names in this help.  These are
hyperlinks to further help, a mouse click or typing the <RET> key,
when the cursor is on them (you can skip to these links with the <TAB>
key) will display their respective help strings.

In case something unintended happend to your code you are always able
to resort to the Emacs ‘undo’ functionality from the "Edit" menu or by
typing ‘C-x u’. @@texinfo:@inforef{Top,,emacs}@@ for the complete
editor documentation.

# #+texinfo: @inforef{Top,,emacs} for the complete editor documentation.
